Hello and welcome to Brand Buzz, a show
that delves deep into the marketing
landscape. And today we are discussing
about insurance marketing that has
usually had quote unquote a very
security-led communication. But how is
ICICI Lombard really connecting with the
young audience that want content that
resonates with them? To weigh in on
that, we now have Sheena Kapoor joining
in on the show. Thanks, Sheena. Thank
you so much for joining us on ET now.
>> Thank you. It's a pleasure to be here.
>> Sheena, let's talk about the
demographics for insurance space that
has been evolving over a period of time.
We have more and more younger clients
who are coming into the fold. But you
know, as far as the marketing for
insurance is concerned, it has been
quote unquote a little boring or uh
stabilitydriven, but the younger
audience doesn't really resonate with
that. So how have you reoriented
yourself for the younger demographics
that's come into the fold?
>> Yeah, that's a very interesting question
because uh you're you're very right that
by and large BFSI including insurance
category tends to be very boring. Um I
think a large part of that uh as a
culprit is you know you've got to be
within the guidelines and you know the
playbook of compliance. Um, and since
we're a very tightly regulated, you
know, uh, category and in an
environment, so a lot of the out
ofthebox creative thinking you would
possibly see in a lot of other
categories like FMCG or apparel or auto,
you know, which you would not be able to
see as much in the insurance or BFSI
space. Having said that, I think it
would be um travesty and a truism to say
that a lot of the BFSI brands or
insurance brands including ICS Lombard
that we do very boring run-of-the-mill
stuff, you know. Um I think at ICSL
Lombard we are um very keen and very
particular on adopting you know
generative AI tools you know innovation
um you know out ofthe-box thinking in
terms of narrative storytelling and you
mentioned about younger demogs. Yes. um
you know even as a population as a
country you're talking about a
significant part of the population today
that falls in the Gen Z and the alpha
range um and that also brings about a
massive opportunity for future in terms
of the lifetime value of the customer
and this you know category or cohort of
customers they're very digital native
they're digital first you know um in the
traditional model a lot of the insurance
selling was driven driven and even today
to a large extent it is intermediary
driven you know you in the olden era you
would have the typical stereotypical you
know LIC agent knocking on doors and
selling insurance agent
>> whereas today's gen is very clear that
they want you know um digital first as
an experience from an adoption um from a
service delivery um and whether it is
from a research perspective you know
they're getting on to the internet. They
are looking at YouTube. They're looking
at a lot of content creators to figure
out what is the best solution and
investment. You know, even from an
insurance perspective or a cover that
they should be going in for. Even today
as policy issuances, you know, a lot of
even at Lombard, we are virtually all
paperless. the entire policy issuance
you know which hitherto in the
traditional model used to be you know
physical copies being delivered you know
to your home today it is completely the
entire journey from purchase right up to
claims to renewal is enabled empowered
on WhatsApp so I think tectonic shifts
have happened for marketeers and brands
um you know we are using a lot of
content uh collaborations and co-creat
creating our narrative and storytelling
with influencers. we are using you know
a different format of reels whether it
is you know on Insta which is platform
you know specific and it's not a cookie
cutter solution from a narrative
storytelling we are using a lot of
gamification we're using a lot of Gen AI
just to be able to appeal to the new gen
you know um it's a lot more
conversational it's a lot more authentic
it's a lot more real it's also a lot
more attuned with the values that the
new gen really stands for.
>> Gina, that was my next question. In
fact, you've answered that that you know
for a very digitally first uh consumer,
you're reorienting yourself to fit into
that. But as far as the campaigns are
concerned, we've seen couple of
campaigns like gamification, you've used
music, you've used influencers. But
having said that, every brand perhaps
has taken a cognizance of the fact that
you know this is where the action is.
And by virtue of that technology has
become a very big differentiator as
well. So how how is ICICI Lombard what's
your USB?
>> So you know um and again you're right
technology has become you know table
stakes today. If if you are not
reinventing yourself if you're not
keeping step with the advent of
technology you are going to be a legard.
And you know there's just there is just
no option. you know I mean you're
compelled to reinvent yourself and walk
the talk with technology levers you know
having said that at ICSL Lombard we have
like I mentioned earlier innovation has
been a cornerstone of most of our
campaigns and communication so to give
you an example you know a lot of the
brands today and the buzzword is genai
right you're talking you know a plethora
of genai tools we were the first to
launch in the country as an industry
first initiative and I'm not just
talking about insurance, I'm talking
about across BFSI and possibly across
other categories of e-commerce or FMCG.
In way back 2023, we're sitting here
today chatting in July 2025. You know,
way back in 2023, we launched our entire
Gen AI campaign which was claim your
calm. And the entire principle um that
it was really based upon was peace of
mind and we took the analogy of
meditation and you know a lot of the
meditative journey that you will
experience say with um apps like calm or
headspace where you're talking about you
know elevating your anxiety bringing
about peace of mind which really if you
look at it fundamentally is what
insurance provides you peace of mind we
launched that campaign which was
completely scripted, edited, produced
using Gen AI tools and way back in 2023.
You know, I'm also very pleased to share
that we've been on, you know, pushing
the boundaries, pushing the envelope and
raising the bar with every subsequent
campaign. Um, you know, talking about
our tripsecure product which is actually
a travel insurance product. This product
is actually powered by AI itself. The
product itself brings you a lot of
hyperpersonalization and is able to be
able to provide you covers which are
customized to your needs. And uh because
the product itself was powered by AI, we
said, you know, we didn't want to do the
regular run-of-the-mill ad or even a
creative jingle, we actually used gen
and again happy to share we're the
India's first gen AI created brand
anthem for a product you know and a
India's first I'm talking you know and
it's a very catchy tune where in the in
the playbook of a song itself and you
know if you hear the song you would
actually you know believe that it is out
of you know some music album whereas
actually it is from the stables of an
non-m music label insurance brand like
ICL Lumbard and through the storytelling
of the song itself you know with very
catchy beats and you know rhythm we've
been able to highlight situations and
the need for travel insurance and what
trip seccure you know really does and
even from an amplification standpoint
joint. We embedded this anthem with um
platforms like Spotify, with radio, you
know, where it was very seamless in
terms of, you know, the amplification
where even as a listener or, you know,
when you're really driving or commuting,
you know, within the city or outside,
it's part of your playlist. So, it's
completely seamless and it's only later
that you realize, oh my god, that's
actually a brand message from ICLad. We
are amongst the industry firsts on
multiple accounts. You know our isare
app which is our flagship um app mobile
app you know it's focused and hinges not
just on entire transaction and
enablement of you know claims or policy
issuance or purchase through the app but
we are actually focused on and you know
nearly you're talking about 20 million
subscribers where you're giving access
to the consumer to a plethora of
preventive and wellness solutions. You
have 24/7 e- pharmacy. You've got, you
know, uh you can book an ambulance. You
can uh book a video consultation with
doctors. You'll get meal plan. You'll
get step trackers. You know, I mean,
there is, you know, consultation and
there is collaboration with, you know,
health practitioners and experts and
trying to build about the entire ethos
and ecosystem of well-being and
wellness. Yeah.
>> Right. But like you mentioned, insurance
is a very regulated space. So you have
to work within a certain framework,
right? So how do you manage how do you
strike a balance between that uh that
regulated framework also uh having a
meaningful communication because that is
also a very important part of what
you're selling and and having a
communication that really resonates with
the young audience.
>> Right? So I've you know I've already
given examples of you know say trip
secure or even our claim your calm
campaign you know you we spoke about
earlier um younger gen right now as a
younger gen audience you know that they
have high affinity with gaming right we
now decided to take gaming and we went
through a lot of deliberation we went
through a lot of roots and a lot of
ideiation you know and brainstorming
before actually finalized on you know
the creative uh route and you know it's
again uh in collaboration in tandem with
our creative uh partners um we decided
to bring alive the entire message and
communication of insurance through
gamification and what we took as a
narrative as an analogy was the game
>> the whole message or the insight doesn't
change it's just the communication uh
that probably changes or the method of
>> yes because it's the narrative and the
storytelling where I'm making it more
creative. I'm making it more
conversational. I have brought about
innovation. I've brought about a change
in the format to make it more younger,
to make it more refreshing, to make it
more differentiated, you know,
clutterbreaking as well as appealing to
the younger gen, right? And the entire
film and campaign of Game of Life rests
on the principle that life itself is a
game, right? and and therefore from an
insurance category perspective you know
it's so uncertain that tomorrow you
don't know what may really happen you
know an unfortunate event or a situation
and it's really insurance that you know
has your back and you know which
empowers you to lead a frictionless life
to you know to the best possible
scenario if you're well and adequately
covered and the entire communication of
game of life was through the character
and through the entire you know playbook
book of gaming.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, so as the character walks, he
or she is, you know, gaining points.
Finally, you respawn. You actually fall,
but you respawn, which the analogy is
that with insurance, you come back on
your feet. You bounce back to your feet.
>> Yeah. Very interesting. Uh Shin, those
are very interesting campaigns that you
mentioned. Um tell us what has been the
role of AI and uh like you mentioned
you've been using a lot of uh technology
and AI in generating these campaigns. Uh
talk to us about that and also uh how
data led how data driven have you been
because uh you know AI has also enabled
a lot of data generation and a lot of
personalization if you will. Uh how have
you been leveraging that? So again I
think there has been you know underlying
shifts that have happened you know in
the category and not just in insurance
and BFSI and you know by and large
across one is you've moved from a
transactional to a more experiential
space. The second is you've moved from a
more reactive to a preventive space and
you know the third is you've moved from
a very generic or a cookie cutter
solution to a more hyperpersonalized
space. So these have been your three
larger trends. Yes. And you know um AI,
Gen AI, ML, data science you know uh we
have been leveraging a lot of these
levers at ICSS alumbad and if you look
at from a consumer you know journey
cycle right from purchase you know our
digital acquisition today you know um
earlier there was a lot of offline
traditional models today you're relying
a lot on a lot of digital tools for
engagement for acquisition I'm using
genai I and AI modeling for risk
assessment, for risk underwriting. You
know, our claims team is using AI tools
to understand the claim behaviors, the
triggers. Even we have um embedded, you
know, AI tools in terms of the claim
estimation and that has also led to a
lot of operational efficiencies in terms
of the tax in terms of the amounts that
have you know
>> but have you been able to quantify that?
Yes, of course. So, today you're talking
about on our, you know, um, like I
mentioned on our Techare app, we've got
20 million subscribers. Our, uh, over
70% of our acquisition is through
digital and search models. Um, our
partnerships with fintech and, um, a lot
of the, you know, uh, embedded insurance
providers and mobility is is, you know,
contributing over 30% of our, uh,
revenues. uh we are talking about even
on claims you're talking about um in the
duration of you know under one hour
you're talking about as high as 75% of
our claims um on the health side being
done under one hour using a lot of these
uh AI tools um motor uh insurance over
95% of our claims are you know
completely cashless um and it's not just
you know on the AI like in the marketing
space one is using Genaii tools for
content creation, for video, for
editing, for production, for
translation, for you know for our
customer service team is using you know
for NLP your chat bots your um even your
policy document if a consumer wants to
understand the FAQs wants to understand
inclusions exclusions it's as simple as
just chatting on your WhatsApp or it's
you know voice- based and there are very
transient and you know very intelligent
bots um you know where you're talking to
you um and mimicking the human accents.
And we're now, you know, bringing it to
the next edge of technology where you're
using it to bring it as closer to
multiple dialects and talking in the
authentic accent in the regional um
space that they belong to. But you know,
we were the first insurer to move our
entire um you know, data to cloud
computing on uh AWS. We are also the
first insurer to move from a uh you know
risk and um you know disaster recovery
um onto AWS. Um you know we've been on
the cutting edge like I said even on
products um our um trip secure product
is an AI powered product. Our hero
product on health insurance that we
launched last year elevate elevate
itself is an AI powered product. So
we've spoken about all the good things
that have happened the tectonic shifts
and how you've been reorienting
yourselves to it but talk to us about
the challenges uh the challenges of the
not just the uh insurance marketing
space I mean of course regulations would
be one of them but what have been your
challenges in terms of the fact that
perhaps everybody is jumping onto the
same bandwagon called AI.
>> So I think for us you know we have been
far ahead as innovators and pioneers in
this journey. So I don't see you know
others uh getting onto the bandwagon of
you know Genai um as as an impediment or
as a challenge. I think um we as brand
custodian and also we are the largest
private general insurance company of the
country. It really falls on us as a
market leader to be able to demonstrate
innovation to be able to demonstrate you
know why we enjoy the trust uh of over
50 million policy holders and why we
also bear that responsibility of being
market leader and torchbearer you know
for the industry at large. Um so for me
I think what I would see is you know one
of the challenges from as a marketer is
the fact that you know um and it's the
age-old question about attribution
modeling right um where you're able to
demonstrate the exact ROI that brand and
you know um the acquisition or the brand
aura from and and you know if I talk
about metrics it's awareness
consideration preference and all of that
and how much of that there directly
attributes to you know your conversions
and therefore linked to that is an
entire fullfunnel you know campaign
management. So today you know with large
organizations while we're trying to
integrate a lot of it still tends to be
you know there are a lot of disparit
systems or you have silos. So as a
marketeer the uh challenge is to be able
to have one view of the customer journey
right from all the monies that you're
spending on the brand or the acquisition
side to be you know right up to the
conversion and you will still have to
walk that fine balance of performance
versus you know brand building. The
third challenge that I see is really
about you know as as a brand custodian
to be able to maintain your leadership
stance you know while we are the market
leaders you know in terms of in the
private uh GI space and number two
overall to be able to enjoy and maintain
that leadership stance in a very
increased competitive environment you
know where you've got newer players
entering you know where um you know the
marketing budgets at my disposal you
know visav some of the peers in the
industry you know I mean the difference
is manifold you know and the order of
magnitude is is very high right but for
me to be able to therefore it also
compels me that every rupee or marketing
dollar that one spends you know you're
able to justify and has a very yeah
strong interlin ROI um but the challenge
therefore remains to be able to maintain
the category leadership and linked to
that from a very soft space is when you
talk about insurance there are a lot of
you know perceptions some of them there
are myths some bit there is some truth
to this but you know there is a lot of
negative sentiment also that resides you
know as a larger population and the
customer's mind because of some you know
other you know misselling or you know
some you know um not so ideal practices
on the claim side right where you want
to be able to enjoy and hold on to the
trust of the customer. So from what I
see is perhaps you know the despite the
tectonic shifts that you have been uh
you know adapting to the problems at the
the challenges at the marketer levels
remain remains the same perhaps since
years I've been you know hearing the
problems that you just stated. So that
doesn't change really. But on that note
Sheena thank you so much for taking the
time out and joining us.
>> Likewise thank you so much. It's been
wonderful chatting with you.